Section1:

Reference Text Book:- Head First Java,
Kathy Sierra, Bert Bates

From <https://www.google.com/search?q=head+first+java&oq=head+first&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0l5.2711j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8> 


What is a programming language?

What is Java? Why is it called Object Oriented Programming language?

Introduction to features of OOPL-Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism etc

How to run Java program on your machine?

Intro to Eclipse IDE and installation.
(project ,package, lib folder)

JRE,JDK,JVM ??

Compilation and running java program.(.java, .class files)
main method significance.


Section 2:

Always remember- To be a good developer you should learn to read the documentation.
	• Terminology is very important. We need to call something
	Exactly what it should be called. This helps while reading related stuff online.
	 

What is Object?

State(fields) and behavior(methods)

Give examples of real world objects. Like dog, bicycle, radio
And explain about their state and behavior.
For dog: color, breed, height are all states.These states are exposed as fields in java.
Barking, eating, sleeping are all the things dog can do,so they can be behavior of dog. These behaviors as methods in java.

 What is a Class?

In real world there are many bicycles with the same make and model. Each bicycle was built from same set of blue print. So this blueprint is called a class. This is what we need to keep in mind when creating a class. We are creating a blueprint to create an object which can have some state and behavior.

How to create an Object using blueprint i.e. Class?

What is inheritance?
Inheritance is used to inherit commonly used state and behavior from other classes.
Each class can have one super class.
Use extends keyword.

Example: We have different types of vehicles.

What is an Interface?

It is a contract , and it tells that you are abiding to do something
In your class.
Usage of -Implements key word.

Variables:

Instance variables(Non-static fields)
Class variables(static fields)
Local variables(fields declared inside a method)
Parameters()

